# Nitrogen Demo 1: FAIRness assessment with Datasets2Tools

The demo will show how users can manually add FAIR evaluations for 3 types of digital objects:
omics datasets, computational tools, and canned bioinformatics analyses. 
 
## Indexing of 3 Types of Biomedical Digital Objects
The demo will first show a system that indexes ~6,000 publicly available datasets from the Gene Expression Omnibus and LINCS, ~4,000 computational tools published in the leading bioinformatics journals; as well as ~30,000 canned analyses generated by the computational tools applied to the data in the repository. The user will be able to search and filter the content in the repository to identify specific subsets of tools, datasets, and analyses. 
 
## Multiple Search Functionalities
Users will be able to locate the digital objects indexed by the database in three different ways: through a web-based search engine, a Google Chrome browser extension, and an Application Programming Interface. The demo will guide users how to rapidly identify digital objects relevant to their research interests.
 
## Evaluation of Digital Object for FAIRness
Users will be able to submit FAIR evaluations of all the 3 types of indexed digital objects by filling in web-based forms. FAIR evaluations will be performed by answering questions listed on the form. There will be 3 different FAIR evaluations forms, corresponding to each of type the indexed digital objects: datasets, tools and canned analyses.
 
## Visualization of FAIR Evaluation Results
FAIR evaluations generated by users will be stored in a database and displayed on the repository website in two different ways: through an insignia and interactive badge. The insignia will be displayed on the landing page of each digital object, whereas the badge will be displayed on the search results of the web application. Users will be able to rank search results based on the results of the FAIR evaluations, thus promoting the findability of digital objects compliant with FAIR.
